# Learning from Graph data using Keras and Tensorflow

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2600/1*KwAHRcw6QZ_SCxNWMi0JHA.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Cora Data set Citation Graph</span>

### Motivation :

There is a lot of data out there that can be represented in the form of a graph
in real-world applications like in Citation Networks, Social Networks (Followers
graph, Friends network, â€¦ ), Biological Networks or Telecommunications. <br>
Using Graph extracted features can boost the performance of predictive models by
relying of information flow between close nodes. However, representing graph
data is not straightforward especially if we donâ€™t intend to implement
hand-crafted features.<br> In this post we will explore some ways to deal with
generic graphs to do node classification based on graph representations learned
directly from data.

### Dataset :

The [Cora](https://linqs-data.soe.ucsc.edu/public/lbc/cora.tgz) citation network
data set will serve as the base to the implementations and experiments
throughout this post. Each node represents a scientific paper and edges between
nodes represent a citation relation between the two papers.<br> Each node is
represented by a set of binary features ( Bag of words ) as well as by a set of
edges that link it to other nodes.<br> The dataset has **2708** nodes classified
into one of seven classes. The network has **5429** links. Each Node is also
represented  by a binary word features indicating the presence of the
corresponding word. Overall there is **1433** binary (Sparse) features for each
node. In what follows we *only* use **140** samples for training and the rest
for validation/test.

### Problem Setting :

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*klF4yon9ZpP6oZ0kvO86QA.png)

**Problem** : Assigning a class label to nodes in a graph while having few
training samples.<br> **Intuition**/**Hypothesis** : Nodes that are close in the
graph are more likely to have similar labels.<br> **Solution** : Find a way to
extract features from the graph to help classify new nodes.

### Proposed Approach :

<br>

**Baseline Model :**

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*nlDeQPW2ABhtwjoSI2dvWQ.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Simple Baseline Model</span>

We first experiment with the simplest model that learn to predict node classes
using only the binary features and discarding all graph information.<br> This
model is a fully-connected Neural Network that takes as input the binary
features and outputs the class probabilities for each node.

#### **Baseline model Accuracy : 53.28%**

****This is the initial accuracy that we will try to improve on by adding graph
based features.

**Adding Graph features :**

One way to automatically learn graph features by embedding each node into a
vector by training a network on the auxiliary task of predicting the inverse of
the shortest path length between two input nodes like detailed on the figure and
code snippet below :

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*PP_y_YhkKFYpzkj7szhnaw.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Learning an embedding vector for each node</span>

The next step is to use the pre-trained node embedding as input to the
classification model. We also add the an additional input which is the average
binary features of the neighboring nodes using distance of learned embedding
vectors.

The resulting classification network is described in the following figure :

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*xc99u2ejelSXNPKPmh-Nrw.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Using pretrained embeddings to do node classification</span>

#### **Graph embedding classification model Accuracy : 73.06%**

We can see that adding learned graph features as input to the classification
model helps significantly improve the classification accuracy compared to the
baseline model from **53.28% ***to*** 73.06% **ðŸ˜„.

**Improving Graph feature learning :**

We can look to further improve the previous model by pushing the pre-training
further and using the binary features in the node embedding network and reusing
the pre-trained weights from the binary features  in addition to the node
embedding vector. This results in a model that relies on more useful
representations of the binary features learned from the graph structure.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*bEy9ua6jTBdkFGrrfvxpiA.png)

#### Improved Graph embedding classification model Accuracy : *76.35*%

This additional improvement adds a few percent accuracy compared to the previous
approach.

### Conclusion :

In this post we saw that we can learn useful representations from graph
structured data and then use these representations to improve the generalization
performance of a node classification model from **53.28% ***to*** 76.35% **ðŸ˜Ž.

Code to reproduce the results is available here :
[https://github.com/CVxTz/graph_classification](https://github.com/CVxTz/graph_classification)
